# Project Description

## Team Name
TuneMe 

## Team Members 
**Zaina Qasim** 
- Major: Computer Science
- Email: qasimza@mail.uc.edu
- Phone: +1 (513) 739-4757

## Project Topic Area
- NLP - Sentiment Analysis, Speech Emotion Recognition 
- Audio/Music Processing 
- Mobile App Development (Android)

## Problem Statement 

Currently, the two most popular apps for listening to music (and finding recommendations) are Apple Music and Spotify. Apple Music’s recommendation algorithm is based on the user’s listening history, preferences – genres and artists selected at the creation of their profile, and artists that it thinks they might like due to similarities in preferences with other users. Spotify’s algorithm, on the other hand, breaks down a song into its rhythm and structure. Last November, Spotify proposed a recommendation model called MUSIG, that suggests music based on “individual features of songs (like genre, acoustics, danceability, the wordiness of lyrics) and how they relate to one another (like if they appear on the same playlist)” (Hu, 2021). However, either app doesn’t have any features to input how they define similarity – for example, a user may want to generate a playlist of songs that have a similar beat/instrumentation to that of another but may not necessarily care about how similar the lyrics of the songs are. Another user may define similarity in terms of release date and genre but might disregard instrumentation. This results in users being dissatisfied at the recommendations generated by these apps. Thus, the aim of this project is to improve user experience by taking into account their definition of similarity while curating suggestions.  

## Inadequacy of Current Solutions to Problem


## Technical Background Applicable to Problem


# Relevant Coursework

Following courses maybe useful in developing this project: 
-	CS 4071: Design and Analysis of Algorithms
-	CS 4033: AI Principles and Applications 
-	CS 5154: Information Retrieval 
-	CS 5152: Intelligent Data Systems
-	CS 5168: Parallel Computing 
-	CS 5165: Cloud Computing
-	CS 5173: Deep Learning
Furthermore, I have a minor in Mathematics, am pursuing an Undergraduate Certificate in Software Engineering (Intelligent Software Development) and hope to build a career in Data Science. Therefore, I find this making this project suitable for this course. 

# Co-op/Inernship Experience 

##  Project Team Approach to Problem