# Project Description

## Team Name
TuneMe 

## Team Members 
**Zaina Qasim** 
- Major: Computer Science
- Email: qasimza@mail.uc.edu
- Phone: +1 (513) 739-4757

## Project Topic Area
- NLP - Sentiment Analysis, Speech Emotion Recognition 
- Audio/Music Processing 
- Mobile App Development (Android)

## Problem Statement 

Currently, the two most popular apps for listening to music (and finding recommendations) are Apple Music and Spotify. Apple Music’s recommendation algorithm is based on the user’s listening history, preferences – genres and artists selected at the creation of their profile, and artists that it thinks they might like due to similarities in preferences with other users. Spotify’s algorithm, on the other hand, breaks down a song into its rhythm and structure. Last November, Spotify proposed a recommendation model called MUSIG, that suggests music based on “individual features of songs (like genre, acoustics, danceability, the wordiness of lyrics) and how they relate to one another (like if they appear on the same playlist)” (Hu, 2021). However, either app doesn’t have any features to input how they define similarity – for example, a user may want to generate a playlist of songs that have a similar beat/instrumentation to that of another but may not necessarily care about how similar the lyrics of the songs are. Another user may define similarity in terms of release date and genre but might disregard instrumentation. This results in users being dissatisfied at the recommendations generated by these apps. Thus, the aim of this project is to improve user experience by taking into account their definition of similarity while curating suggestions.  

## Inadequacy of Current Solutions to Problem

As stated previously, one of the biggest inadequecies of current solutions to the problem are that 

## Technical Background Applicable to Problem

# Relevant Coursework

The main aim of this project is to develop an algorithm for recommending music based on a user's definition of similarity. This involves understanding various existing algorithms for measuring the similarity between two items, creating a mechanism to measure this similarity, and retrieving music based on this measure of similarity. The following courses maybe useful in achieving this goal:  
* __Required Courses__
 - __CS 4071: Design and Analysis of Algorithms__ - This course will serve as a foundational course on understanding and designing algorithms, as well as calculating their efficiency. 
 - __CS 4033: AI Principles and Applications__ - This course is an introduction to AI and its applications. A number of concepts taught in this class will be useful in developing code for this project.
* __Senior Year Electives - Fall Semester__
 - __CS 5154: Information Retrierval__ - This course dives deep into understanding how to store and retrieve recorded data through the use of a computerized system. The different concepts taught in this class will be useful in retrieving music from online sources.  
 - __CS 5152: Intelligent Data Systems__ - This course goes into the details of how similarity between different items is measured, as well as the various algorithms used to measure group items based on these similarity measures. Some of the algorithms mentioned in this course are being utilized by Apple Music and Spotify for their music recommendation applications.
 - __CS 5168: Parallel Computing__ - This course discusses the theory and practice of parallel and distributed computing. Concepts taught in this class will be useful in understanding how to achieve substantial computational performance and develop an efficient application.     
Additionally, I am pursuing an Undergraduate Certificate in Intelligent Software Development - the credits for completion are obtained using the courses mentioned above and the courses planned for Spring - CS 5165: Cloud Computing, and CS 5173: Deep Learning. 

# Co-op/Inernship Experience 

In addition to my college experiences, my co-op experiences will be useful in developing code for this project. For all five of my co-ops, I worked at Infinera Corporation, which is a "San Jose, California-based vertically integrated manufacturer of Wavelength division multiplexing-based packet optical transmission equipment and IP transport technologies for the telecommunications service provider market." During the first 3 co-ops I worked in the ASIC Design Team as an intern and switched to the Firmware Team thereafter. Two of the most useful projects that I worked on during my co-ops were LibEval - a tool for extracting useful information from massive ASIC cell libraries in the most efficient way possible and then further visualizing this data, and TruePositives - A Flask-based web application to parse resumes for a particular job position and displaying the information in a digestible format, with filtering capacities. Working on these projects taught me various technical skills such as utilizing Python multiprocessing library to cut down runtime when dealing with large chunks of data, how to process natural language (resumes) especially when there is variation in formatting/verbiage. Furthermore, serving as the manager for the TruePositives project helped me learn the planning and adaptation skills needed to manage this project.

##  Project Team Approach to Problem

Coding for the proposed project can be divided into the following two components:
1.	Music recommendation algorithm that involves 
    - Analysis of the music based on rhythm, melody, and instrumentation.
    - Analysis of lyrics to determine if the songs convey similar emotions or talk on the same subjects.
    - Analysis of genre, artist, release era, popularity, etc.
    - User Input on the weightage of each area for analysis.
Note: Above list of metrics is neither exhaustive nor immutable. Metrics for analysis may be added or removed based on mathematical results on measures of similarity through the course of development of this project. 
2.	Android-based mobile application or alternatively flask-based web application (in case of time constraints) which may be divided into the following sub-components:
    - UI/UX Design
    - Data storage and hosting
Preliminary research will be conducted to evaluate existing recommendation algorithms and determine what approach works best when developing the algorithm. Further research may be conducted to determine what defines similarity for users, what metrics to consider (and offer as options to the user). Datasets for training may be obtained from online resources such as those mentioned in the Wikipedia article, List of Datasets for Machine Learning Research (2022). Possible Pythonic libraries that maybe useful for the data analytics component of this project are Librosa, Soundfile, NumPy, Sklearn, Tensorflow and Pyaudio. Furthermore, I may use an open-source free-to-use template for the user interface of the Android/Web application. 
